Tevhon Digsby
Professor Scott
MUS 115
Assignment 1
	Music in My Life
	Music in my life is essentially unavoidable. Almost every single day since I can remember I’ve been exposed to music somehow, whether i’m playing an instrument, listening to my preferred music, watching tv, driving in a car, at a friend’s or family member’s house, and especially at parties. It has become a constant routine that I can not escape, It has me bounded like a prisoner and my crime the need to feel, the need to express.
	Growing up not only did I listen to music, I also created it. For four years I played the saxophone in my school’s band. Those four years were the four most creative years of my life. I spent hours after school practicing trying to perfect the art. I remember playing twinkle twinkle little star over and over again, working on my tempo, rhythm. It all paid off when we performed on stage in front of our school and other audiences. What I loved most about playing in a band is that we were able to synchronize our instruments and create a harmony. It was truly music to my ears. I since gave up creating music to focus more on sports. Even though I stopped playing the saxophone I still have a passion for it and hope to play again as a hobby one day.
	During my second year in high school I found myself once again in a band. This wasn’t an ordinary band though, it was stomp. Stomp is when performers use everyday items (pans,garbage pails, barrels, etc.) to create music. I learned a lot from that course, being able to create great music with a garbage pail made me wonder about things such as what was the first item used to create music, who played it, and what was the music used for. Although the course didn’t give me the answers, it showed me a different side of music.
	Although my journey of creating music is over, I enjoy listening to music more than ever. My favorite genre is Reggae. My parents are from Jamaica, so growing up reggae was the main source of music in my house. Artists like Beenie Man, Capleton, and Sizzla were playing very often. It was the beat of the songs that caught me and moved me since as a child I didn't really understand the meaning of the lyrics. Some days we would have house parties and the music would be so loud that I couldn't think, so I did the next best thing, dance. Other than reggae I have one other preferred genre, RnB.
	RnB plays an important role in my life because it soothes me and puts me at ease. It’s the music that I listen to while going to sleep. It relaxes my mind and takes me to a different place. It allows me to fantasize about love, happiness, and family. When RnB is playing it fills me with positive emotion and leaves me worry-less for the moment.
	Music in my life is an indispensable tool. It inspires me, it’s an outlet from the everyday grind. I listen to it all the time, at home, at school, in the car, and even while doing homework. It has become an essential part of my life and I find myself needing it almost as much as I need air.
